1995 marked the "The Twelfth International Obfuscated C Code Contest"

Copyright (c) 1996, Landon Curt Noll, Larry Bassel & Sriram Srinivasan.
All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, educational or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior permission in writing
from Landon Curt Noll, Larry Bassel and Sriram Srinivasan.


The IOCCC has an official home page:

	http://www.ioccc.org

containing previous winning entries, information about the judges,
announcements and much more.

Use make to compile entries.  It is possible that on BSD or non-unix
systems the makefile needs to be changed.  See the Makefile for details.

Look at the source and try to figure out what the programs do, and run
them with various inputs.  If you want to, look at the hints files for
spoilers - this year we included most of the information included
by the submitters.

Read over the makefile for compile/build issues.  Your system may
require certain changes (add or remove a library, add or remove a
#define).

This year Sriram Srinivasan joined the judging.

The moderator of comp.unix.wizards did not feel that the IOCCC was "wizardly"
enough to be posted to comp.unix.wizards - we will no longer post the
winners to this newsgroup - we'll let you the reader decide for yourself the 
wizardlyness of these entries.

This year there were several people who won more than once
and several previous winners who won this year. The judging was done
without knowledge of the names of the submitters - multiple winners were
a coincidence. Since we tend to discount entries that are similar to
previous winners, these people have had to come with original ideas to
stay in the winners circle.

We wish to thank CAIP at Rutgers University for the use of their machines.

A few notes regarding future contests
-------------------------------------

Due to changes in the Usenix conference calendar, the 1996 contest will
be delayed.  Because there will be no Summer 1996 Usenix conference,
the 1996 IOCCC winners will be announced at the Jan 1997 Usenix
conference.

The 1996 contest will not open until sometime in October 1996, and will
close sometime around the end of December 1996.  The rules for the 1996
contest have not been formed at this time and are not expected to be
ready for distribution until late September 1996.

Be sure to wait until the 1996 rules are posted before submitting entries.  
Rules differ from year to year, sometimes in significant ways.

Please send us comments and suggestions what we have expressed above.
Also include anything else that you would like to see in future contests.
Send such email to:

	...!{sun,pacbell,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!judges
	judges@toad.com

If you use, distribute or publish these entries in some way, please drop
us a line.  We enjoy seeing who, where and how the contest is used.

If you have problems with any of the entries, AND YOU HAVE A FIX, please
EMail the fix (patch file or the entire changed file) to the above address.


Credits
-------

We would like to thank Barbara Frezza for her role as official chef of
the contest.  Landon Noll, Larry Bassel and Sriram Srinivasan
appreciated the opportunity to serve as official taste testers.  And as
usual, the food was excellent.  The official menus of the 1995
Obfuscated C Contest dinners were:

Session One:

Antipasti: Crudites, olive selection, pickles, cheese selection
Soup: Homemade mushroom and green onion soup
Salad: artichoke, red bell peppers, Italian onions, cucumbers 
       and Greek olives with mustard vinaigrette
Main Course: Pizzas, with a variety of toppings
Dessert: Chocolate torte

Session Two:

Antipasti: crudites, olives, roasted red peppers, cheese selection
Salad: Mixed greens with vinaigrette
Main Course: Spaghetti with tomato sauce containing mushrooms and black olives
	     selection of hot and mild Italian sausages
Bread: Fresh French bread
Dessert: Cookie selection, featuring chocolate chocolate chip cookies and 
	 chocolate butter cookies


Session Three 

Antipasti: Crudites, olive selection
Salad: Mixed greens with mustard vinaigrette
Main Course: Broiled salmon with lemmon pepper mayonnaise, chard, mixture
	of white and wild rices
Bread: Cheese bread with herbs
Dessert: Chocolate cheesecake (Coutesy of Elizabeth Watson)

Session Four:

Antipasti: Crudites, olive selection, roasted red peppers, cheese selection
Bread: Sourdough
Salad: Mixed spring greens with flowers, and mustard vinaigrette
Main Course: Surf and Turf--Grilled steaks of salmon and New York steak
	grilled vegetables--onions, peppers, portobello mushrooms
	wild rice
Dessert: Chocolate mousse

Session Five:

Antipasti: Crudites, olive selection, pickles
Salad: Mixed spring greens with mustard vinaigrette
Main Course: Linguini with a cream sauce of Shiitaki mushrooms and smoked
salmon
Bread: Garlic bread
Dessert: Flourless chocolate torte

Session Six:

Antipasti: Carrot and celery sticks with cheese spread, olive selection, 
pickles
Bread: Focaccia with black olives and mozzarella cheeses
Salad: Mixed spring greens with flowers and mustard vinaigrette
Soup: Homemade butternut squash soup with mushrooms
Main Course: Cracked dungeness crab with lemon mayonnaise, broccoli,
	mixture of white and brown rice
Dessert: Key lime pie

