1993 marked the "The Tenth International Obfuscated C Code Contest"

Copyright (c) 1993, Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel.
All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, educational or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior permission in writing
from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel.

Use make to compile entries.  It is possible that on BSD or non-unix
systems the makefile needs to be changed.  See the Makefile for details.

Look at the source and try to figure out what the programs do, and run
them with various inputs.  If you want to, look at the hints files for
spoilers - this year we included most of the information included
by the submitters.

Read over the makefile for compile/build issues.  Your system may
require certain changes (add or remove a library, add or remove a
#define).

Name and address information are separated from the actual program
prior to judging.  This eliminates any chance that we would bias our
judging for/against any person or group.

This year was the first year that ANSI C was the default.  Use of
classic K&R C was allowed so long as ANSI C compilers could still
compile the entry.  If you do not have an ANSI C compiler, you may
not be able to compile the winners, sorry!

A few notes regarding future contests:

Be sure to wait until the 1994 rules are posted before submitting entries.  
Rules differ from year to year, sometimes in significant ways.

In 1994, we will retract the guideline that discouraged the use of C
constructs such as 3["curds"].  At one time, certain ANSI compilers did
not consider such expressions to be valid ANSI C.  Alert readers noted
that the current ANSI standard considered them to be valid.  We were
unable to find an ANSI C compiler that flagged such expressions as
errors.

Please send us comments and suggestions what we have expressed above.
Also include anything else that you would like to see in future contests.
Send such email to:

	...!{sun,pacbell,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!judges
	judges@toad.com

If you use, distribute or publish these entries in some way, please drop
us a line.  We enjoy seeing who, where and how the contest is used.

If you have problems with any of the entries, AND YOU HAVE A FIX, please
Email the fix (patch file or the entire changed file) to the above address.

Credits:

We would like to thank Barbara Frezza for her role as official chef 
of the contest.  Landon Noll and Larry Bassel appreciated the opportunity
to serve as official taste testers.  And as usual, the food was excellent.
