1994 marked the "The Eleventh International Obfuscated C Code Contest"

Copyright (c) 1994, Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel.
All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, educational or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior permission in writing
from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel.


Use make to compile entries.  It is possible that on BSD or non-unix
systems the makefile needs to be changed.  See the Makefile for details.

Look at the source and try to figure out what the programs do, and run
them with various inputs.  If you want to, look at the hints files for
spoilers - this year we included most of the information included
by the submitters.

Read over the makefile for compile/build issues.  Your system may
require certain changes (add or remove a library, add or remove a
#define).

Name and address information are separated from the actual program
prior to judging.  This eliminates any chance that we would bias our
judging for/against any person or group.

This year we retracted the guideline that discouraged the use of C
constructs such as 3["curds"].  At one time, certain ANSI compilers did
not consider such expressions to be valid ANSI C.  Alert readers noted
that the current ANSI standard considered them to be valid.  We were
unable to find an ANSI C compiler that flagged such expressions as
errors.

Rule abuse was encouraged this year - two of this year's winners found
new and interesting abuses of the rules. Next year's rules will change
due to these (smr and dodsond2) entries' forms of abuse.


Want to be an IOCCC Judge?
--------------------------

We are thinking about adding a 3rd judge to our team.  A 3rd judge
would help distribute the work load as well as to allowing us to
possibly expand or reshape the contest.

The ideal 3rd judge would have all of the following:

    * thorough knowledge of the C language (ANSI and K&R)
    * thorough knowledge of common C libs (libc, libm, libcurses, ...)
    * reasonable written communication skills (able to write *.hint files)
    * appreciation for well-written non-obfuscated code
    * willing to devote ~4 weekend days in January (starting Jan 96) for judging
    * located in the San Francisco (California, USA) Bay Area, or
      able to travel (paying your own way) to the SF Bay Area during judging, or
      able to link to the other IOCCC judges some form of a a video link

Any of the following, though not required, would be a plus:

    * familiar with portability issues
    * some /bin/sh experience
    * some Perl experience
    * some C++ experience
    * some experience with low-level X11 programming
    * attends Usenix conferences on a regular basis
    * good sense of humor
    * loves chocolate and other fine foods  :-)

If you think this may be you, send EMail before 31 Dec 1995, to:

	judges@toad.com		(use the Subject: 3rd judge)

Include in your message:

    * Your name, address, EMail address and phone number
    * Why would you want to be an IOCCC judge?
    * How well do you match each of the above qualifications?
    * What special skills would you bring to the team?

If you have any questions about the above, feel free to ask us via
EMail at the above address.


Looking for an IOCCC WWW site
-----------------------------

We would like to setup an IOCCC home page somewhere out in WWW land.
If you have a well known stable site that would be willing to give us
access to put up some IOCCC html pages, please send EMail (say prior
to 31 Dec 1995) to:

	judges@toad.com		(use the Subject: www site)

describing your site and any other appropriate comments.  Thanks!


A few notes regarding future contests
-------------------------------------

Due to changes in the Usenix conference calendar, the 1995 contest will
be delayed.  Because there will be no Summer 1995 Usenix conference,
the 1995 IOCCC winners will be announced at the Jan 1996 Usenix conference.
 
The 1995 contest will not open until late October 1995, and will close
sometime around the end of December 1995.  The rules for the 1995
contest have not been formed at this time and are not expected to be
ready for distribution until late October 1995.

Be sure to wait until the 1995 rules are posted before submitting entries.  
Rules differ from year to year, sometimes in significant ways.

Please send us comments and suggestions what we have expressed above.
Also include anything else that you would like to see in future contests.
Send such email to:

	...!{sun,pacbell,uunet,pyramid}!hoptoad!judges
	judges@toad.com

If you use, distribute or publish these entries in some way, please drop
us a line.  We enjoy seeing who, where and how the contest is used.

If you have problems with any of the entries, AND YOU HAVE A FIX, please
EMail the fix (patch file or the entire changed file) to the above address.


Credits
-------

We would like to thank Barbara Frezza for her role as official chef 
of the contest.  Landon Noll and Larry Bassel appreciated the opportunity
to serve as official taste testers.  And as usual, the food was excellent.
The official menu of the 1994 Obfuscated C Contest dinner:

Antipasto: meats, cheeses, olives, peppers, pickles, artichokes
Soup: Cream of tomato
Salad: spring mix
Pasta: Linguine with wild mushrooms and Reggiano Parmesan
Seafood: Salmon in cream sauce or lobster claws
Vegetable: Zucchini
Dessert: Homemade chocolate/pecan brownies, fruit
