Copyright (c) 1986, Landon Curt Noll & Larry Bassel.
All Rights Reserved.  Permission for personal, educational or non-profit use is
granted provided this this copyright and notice are included in its entirety
and remains unaltered.  All other uses must receive prior permission in writing
from both Landon Curt Noll and Larry Bassel.

WARNING: The rules and mailing address for the contest change from year
         to year.  Be sure that you consult the current set of rules
	 before submitting entries.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Subject: Third International Obfuscated C Code Contest Rules
Newsgroups: net.lang.c
Keywords: rules,1986,obfuscate,contest

GOAL:  To write the most Obscure working C program following the rules below:

RULES:	1) The source must be 1024 bytes or less.  NO exceptions!

	2) Include in your letter:
	    a) Name (or anonymous), Company/School, City, State and Country.
	    b) Your path from a major network site, if applicable.
	    c) A brief statement of what the program should do.
	    d) The Machine(s)/Operating system(s) on which it runs.
	    e) Enclose your source between the following lines:
		---start of program---
		<place obfuscated source of 1024 bytes or less here>
		---end of program---

	3) The entry should be written in common C. (K&R + common extensions)

	4) The program must be of original work.  All programs must be
	   in the public domain.  All copyrighted programs will be rejected.

	5) Entries must be received between 31-Mar-86 and 30-May-86 0:00 GMT.
	   Email your entries to:
	   
				decwrl!nsc!obfuscate

	   Entries sent by UUCP Email will be confirmed starting 1-May-86.
	   People are encouraged to submit entries via Email, however one may
	   mail entries the following address:

		International Obfuscated C Code Contest
		National Semiconductor
		Attn: Landon Noll      Mail Stop: 7c266
		1135 Kern Ave.
		Sunnyvale, CA 94086
		U.S.A.

AWARDS:	Winners of each category and the best of Show will be posted to
	net.announce as well as being published in the May 86 issue of the
	"Micro/Systems Journal".  Winners also get to receive international
	fame/flame for their efforts!

JUDGING: Awards will be given to the best entry in a number of categories.
	 The actual category list will vary depending on the types of entries
	 we receive.  At the moment, we are considering using the following:

		* The most obscure algorithm
		* The worst abuse of the C preprocessor
		* The strangest source layout
		* The best small one line program
		* The most useful program
		* <anything else we need to give recognition to a good entry>

	Judging will be done by myself, Larry Bassel and other local people
	who are willing to help out.

	We will attempt to run each of them on a Vax 785/4.2BSD system.
	Don't let the lack of such a system stop you!  Try to avoid operating
	system/machine specific code if you do not have such a system.
	Extra points will be given for programs which:

		a) pass lint without complaint
		b) do something quasi-interesting
		c) are portable

	A larger program size was selected to allow for a wider range of
	program ideas.  However if you don't need 1024 bytes don't use them.
	Given two programs with similar techniques and similar levels of
	obfuscation, we will tend to favor the more concise entry.

POLL:	We want to know what you think is the most poorly coded utility
	released with 4.xBSD and/or Sys V.  The top results plus the
	best flames will be posted along with the contest results.
	To vote, please	follow the guidelines below:

	1) Include at the top of the letter:
	    a) Name (or anonymous), Company/School, City, State and Country.
	    b) Your path from a major network site, if applicable.
	    c) the name of the poorly coded utility
	    d) the name of the operating system on which it is found
	    e) the line:	<<<FLAME ON>>>
	    f) 		up to 1024 bytes of flames
	    g) the line:	<<<FLAME OFF>>>

	2) Confine your vote to the standard set of commands.  I.e., don't
	   flame about local commands or user contributed software.

	3) Submit your votes via Email to:

	   	for 4.xBSD:  decwrl!nsc!bsd_util
	   	for Sys V:   decwrl!nsc!sysV_util

	   or, you may send your votes by letter to the same address used by
	   the contest.  Please place your votes on different sheets of paper.

chongo <C> /\cc/\
